Docs for Teams monitoring and alerting capabilities (#6821)
MicrosoftDocs/OfficeDocs-SkypeForBusiness: Teams/teams-alerts/teams-admin-alerts.md

---

> title: Microsoft Teams Monitoring and Alerting 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Microsoft Teams monitoring and alerting 
```

author: vaibhav
ms.author: v-cichur
manager: serdars
audience: Admin
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: msteams
ms.reviewer: vapati
f1.keywords:
localization_priority: Normal
search.appverid:
ms.collection: 
  - M365-collaboration

> description: In this article, you will learn about the Teams alerts and nitifications capabilities avalbale in the Microsoft Teams admin center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In this article, you will learn about the Teams alerts and notifications capabilities available in the Microsoft Teams admin center.
```

appliesto: 
  - Microsoft Teams
ms.custom: 
---

> # Microsoft Teams Monitoring and Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Microsoft Teams monitoring and alerting
```

> New monitoring and alerting capabilities for Microsoft Teams are available in the Microsoft Teams admin center. You can use different sets of rules availble under 'Notifications and Rules' section in Teams admin center to proactively monitor various Teams capablities, and you can be alerted if anything goes wrong with them. For example, you can actively monitor the health of Teams devices (IP Phones, collaboration bars, etc.) if they unexpectedly go offline.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New monitoring and alerting capabilities for Microsoft Teams are available in the Microsoft Teams admin center. You can use different sets of rules available under the **Notifications and Rules** section in the Teams admin center to proactively monitor various Teams capabilities, and you can be alerted if anything goes wrong with them. For example, you can actively monitor the health of Teams devices (such as IP phones and collaboration bars) if they unexpectedly go offline.  
```

> Your organization can use Teams monitoring and alerting to automatically manage Teams capabilities, be alerted if they show something unexpected, and take corrective actions to get things back on-track.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your organization can use Teams monitoring and alerting to automatically manage Teams capabilities, be alerted if they show something unexpected, and take corrective actions to get things back on track.
```

> ## How to manage Monitoring and Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to manage monitoring and alerting
```

> To configure alerting rules, you must be a global admin in Microsoft 365 or a Teams service admin. To learn more about Teams admin roles and which reports each admin role can access, see [Use Teams administrator roles to manage Teams](../using-admin-roles.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure alerting rules, you must be a Global admin in Microsoft 365 or a Teams service admin. To learn more about Teams admin roles and which reports each admin role can access, see [Use Teams administrator roles to manage Teams](../using-admin-roles.md).
```

> Go to the Microsoft Teams admin center, and in the left navigation select **Notifications & alerts**. Under **Rules** choose the rule you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the Microsoft Teams admin center, and in the left navigation pane, select **Notifications & alerts**. Under **Rules**, choose the rule you want to configure.
```

## Teams monitoring rules reference

> HHere's a list of the Teams monitoring rules available in the Microsoft Teams admin center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a list of the Teams monitoring rules available in the Microsoft Teams admin center.
```

We're continually adding and improving the Teams monitoring experience by adding various monitoring capabilities and configuration functionalities. 

|Rule  |Monitoring capability|What's monitored? |
|---------|---------|---------|

> |[Device health status](device-health-status.md)  |Teams Devices | Pro-actively monitor Teams devices if they goes offline 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[Device health status](device-health-status.md)  |Teams Devices | Pro-actively monitors Teams devices if they go offline.
```
